so here's the 2013 KTM baja 990
adventure bike just give you a quick
overlook here one thing you'll notice
for sure on this bike is the knobby the
tires are so it's a bit of poor lighting
right now for this but I just wanted to
give a quick review so people understood
what they're getting into are they gonna
spend $20,000 on a motorcycle first of
all I looked at all the bikes I looked
at well first I was leaving v-strom DL
1000 thought it would be good enough to
go up to Alaska rough in the mountains
but I found this bottoming out too much
so I wanted a taller bike and want
something with a new warranty so Ledet
BMW Triumph Ducati Honda Yamaha wasn't
impressed with anything until I seen
this bike and this bike just stood out
as a as a true Explorer bike and like
again this is quite the machine to tanks
Center glovebox your regular - not a
hole not too fancy GPS mount standard
mirrors I had added the heated grips
which I just put on myself last weekend
I also added the bar risers I added a
cam in the throttle in here because
that's something I'll talk about soon it
needed that and I also added the the
frame for the trunk and the two side
cases because I got all that at the same
time and a real simple thing on the side
stand I got the extra wider foot so that
way it wouldn't sink into the ground as
many of my bikes at and sings this bike
is so much bigger I thought that it
would be worth it so again coming from a
street bike not never ridden a dirt bike
in my life I've tried it and I didn't
like it
so then a lot of people would say what
am I doing with this well I just wanted
a really well-built bike and definitely
that's what you get but if you've never
ridden anything
this I can guarantee say to you that
this is a bike that's designed for
somebody that's written a dirt bike and
it's moving up to a street bike that is
still dirt capable because it has the 21
inch front wheel as you can see off set
it is a very large wheel and it does not
handle like any other bike I've ever had
in my life
it's very off-road capable in fact I
think I was more along for the ride the
bike was taking me places I didn't think
I could we could go over 10 inch logs we
could go through snow we could go
through
creeks that were you know two and a half
feet three feet deep in parts the bike
didn't care about that there is a bit of
a problem I had with the throttle this
sport bike is so torquey literally pull
you off the bike and get you in an
accident pretty quick because of the way
the throttle response is I've never had
a bike that was so bottom and torquey
and it was really hard and the still is
hard to control for me I've done a
thousand kilometers I did 11 hours
yesterday 600 kilometers in the
mountains and I thought it would be
getting easier but in fact it actually
wore my wrist up trying to control this
thing
I'm sure KTM guys that watch this are
gonna be mad for me saying that but it's
a really hard bike to control I'm
definitely not like a street bike so
here are some of the issues it is a very
tall bike it's incredibly tall in fact
I'm 6 foot and it's a reach to get my
leg over this let alone with the side
cases when I put them on there's all my
cases there on the floor so that's
that's something new to get used to this
position of the bars you'll probably
have to adjust them to your own liking
because you know everyone's different
the way the throttle operates I do
suggest getting a cam setup so that way
you can adjust how it operates you
change the cam in there and it's it's
all configurable 2 fuel tanks there is
no fuel gauge on this bike I didn't find
that out till I got at home and what see
how much fuel I had so no fuel gauge
very little information on the
on the odometer that the speedometer I
mean you got to odometers one
speedometer that keeps track of total
mileage outside temperature really basic
basic inside temperature the other thing
you'll notice is that the bike is fairly
lean in here especially in here it's
built to be for your visibility so you
can see the road very neuro windshield
you'll see reviews where people say oh
it does fairly good on the highway yeah
it's it's brutal on the highway there's
a lot of wind you just have to kind of
get used to it you have to decide you
know I was on a BMW in the windshield
wasn't that great either but you know if
you're coming from a street bike we're
beautiful fairing on there and yet a big
windshield you're you're just gonna have
to be get used to feeling the wind
because if you didn't feel the wind
you're gonna be losing on visibility and
and that's where I think KTM did it
right I'm gonna get an extra piece to go
on top of here
so that way can deflect it up a little
bit over my head
here's another problem with the KTM that
I'm finding out now this mirror here
connects to your master cylinder for
your clutch you dump the bike and you
hit it here you'll break it here and
then you won't have an ability to get
home so I'm gonna get the relocation kit
that will be it just moves it over to
the side so that way it's not going to
take that out ix finding out from other
bike riders the center stand where the
side stand is connected to the engine
and if you hit this hard enough you can
crack the engine open so there's a
relocator kit for that I'm not too sure
if I'm gonna go that far but there
definitely is a kit for that to fix that
the rims beautiful rims I thought they
were great then I find out firsthand
experience to other people that we were
writing with blue out they hit some
rocks and they completely pound it in
this rim so that's three bikes in one
week that I've seen where all three of
them needed new rims and apparently it's
a common flaw they're very weak rims you
don't really have an option unless you
go to a really high and aftermarket rim
then you're talking a couple thousand
dollars so get tires really good side
walls like these ones keep the tire
pressure off never let it out and don't
hit stuff too hard in the rim should
last you now remember these are two type
tires so just be careful here's another
feature really nice skid plate crash
bars you can see see the drain car for
the fuel tank cuz the fuel tanks come
all the way down to the bottom looks
like they'd be huge but they only hold
20 liters
altogether 10 liters aside center stand
everything you get with this bike
beautiful bike like I said more of a
dirt bike ministry bike still hard for
me to learn how to ride this I'm still
not sure if I made the right decision
bike altogether cost me $25,000 when I
left cuz the cases and all the extra
little add-ons and the you know freight
and PDI that you end the pain but you
know it's not like you can take this
bike out and actually test write it off
in the mountains you know now I'm seeing
more problems I got lights that are
leaking but that's that's got to be
minor stuff be the way anyone has any
questions ask away and I'll do a video
on it
and I'll show you the parts on the bike
that you might be in question of and
then we can even get into the fact that
doing an oil change on this isn't a
drain plug and a spin on filter it's can
be a four hour job it can be an hour job
just depends on how good you are and
it's expensive okay I look forward to
some comments we will talk to you for
sure in the future soon